# CS1030-Final-Project

Data Tools
This section of the program reviewed the basics of SQL and database management. This allows for the sorting of information into rows and columns, such as in 
Microsoft Excel. Furthermore, it covered the basics of storing data sets and commands to make quick calculations based on the data. It also highlighted some 
terminology regarding data set patterns, such as positive/negative trends and the use of linear regression to make predictions on where aggregate data might go in the 
future.

Big Data
	There is an incredible amount of data in existence. A wide variety of industries utilize vast amounts of data, such as in scientific research, digital libraries, 
  medical records, user-facing applications, and many others. Storing enough data for everything can be challenging. Data is stored by having many hard drives connected 
  into a disk array or disk enclosure. These enclosures can hold up to hundreds of discs at a time, and hundreds of these enclosures can be housed in a data center. Data 
  ending up in company hands isn’t necessarily a good thing, though, since data is also collected on users without explicit consent.

Bias in Machine Learning
	Machine Learning is an algorithm which improves itself automatically based on experience. One form of implementing a machine learning algorithm is using a neural 
  network. These networks can be trained to classify data based on weight it gives different characteristics. Because they’re designed to make these decisions based off 
  data fed to them, machine learning has the potential for bias due to any biases in the data it receives. For example, risk assessment algorithms used in criminal 
  justice sentencing will be utilizing data of past convictions and arrests, which has a significant racial disparity in the US. The same can be said for facial 
  recognition, as software generally only works accurately consistently with white faces. Even in language translation, sexism exists in the system as gendered languages 
  will often automatically associate given professions with a specific gender (i.e. men being engineers and women being cooks).

Unit Test
	I found the unit test to be relatively easy and simple, where I only got the final question incorrect. Past that, the test was a pretty good summary of the 
  content in the unit. It brought the most important concepts back to me, namely the ability to read and analyze data while being aware of any biases. This unit was 
  helpful, despite not being entirely new information, and summarized important points and concepts we’ve read about in further detail in Hello World.
